# VirtuFader
VirtuFader is a MIDI to OSC bridge based around the PreSonus FaderPort 16 and is optimized for it's high resolution motorized faders and scribble strips. VirtuFader allows you to configure an infinite number of virtual faders and is configured through a XML file. Virtual faders can be scrolled in a similar manner to traditional lighting console banks. By using MIDI pitch bend message types, VirtuFader is designed to maximize input resolution to control any OSC or Midi compatible device or application with the smoothest precision possible. In essence, VirtuFader abstracts controlled paraters from phsyical inputs allowing an infinite number of parameters to be controlled from a single controller.
## The PreSonus FaderPort 16
The [PreSonus FaderPort 16](https://www.presonus.com/products/FaderPort-16) is the initial supported device for VirtuFader. The F16 has 16 fadersets, each with: a 100mm high resolution motorized fader, three buttons, and a LCD display. These features are key to the dynmic feedback needed for VirtuFader to support an infinite number of virtual fadersets that we call a vFader. A vFader is simply the parameters of a physical faderset. vFaders can be dynmically loaded into a physical faderset by srolling the vFader Bank, or by opening a submenu. I use Bome's Midi Translator Pro which allows me to route midi in various ways, but it is not a requirement for VirtuFader. For reference, I am not affliated with PreSonus in any way.
## Installation
VirtuFader is written in [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-390/). It makes extensive use of the [MIDO](https://github.com/mido/mido) and [Python-OSC](https://github.com/attwad/python-osc) libraries. I use VS Code as my editor of choice. Get all of that installed or else your gonna have a bad time.
## Configuration
I have included my current configuration files as samples. I use Onyx for lighting control, Resolume and Synesthesia for video, and Enttec ELM for pixel mapping. You will see these reference in the my configuration files. I have also included templates ready for you to add your own controls. I am assuming some basic knowldge of MIDI, OSC, and related applications.
# Help!
I will continue to update this project here as I refine the code. If there is interest, I will consider expanding the scope of VirtuFader's capabilities. This may include expanding to work natively with other controllers. I am not what I would consider a Python expert, so I am always open to help!
